Adding errorids for refinement errors (#4091)
dafny-lang/dafny: docs/HowToFAQ/Errors-Refinement.md

```dafny
module P {
}
module Q refines P {
  export A ...
}
```

A refining declaration that uses `...` must actually be refining a corresponding declaration in the base module.

## **Error: can't change if a module export is default (_name_)** {#ref_default_export_unchangeable}

```dafny
module P {
  const c: int
  export reveals c
}
module Q refines P {
  export P ...
}
```

If a base module P has a default export (implicitly named P), then a refining module, Q, may not declare an export set P with the intention of refining it.

## **Error: a module (_name_) must refine another module** {#ref_module_must_refine_module}

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: a module export (_name_) must refine another export** {#ref_export_must_refine_export}

<!-- TODO -- suspect not reachable -->

## **Error: a module (_name_) can only refine a module facade** {#ref_base_module_must_be_facade}

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: a module ({0}) must refine another module** {#ref_module_must_refine_module_2}

```dafny
module P {
  type W
}
module Q refines P {
  module W {}
}
```

> A submodule M within a module that is refining some basae module must refine some submodule M in the base module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A submodule M within a module that is refining some base module must refine some submodule M in the base module.
```

Reviewer: It would be nice if you could refer to the names of the modules in the example.

## **Error: a refining iterator is not allowed to extend the reads clause** {#ref_no_new_iterator_reads}

<```dafny
module P {
  iterator I() yields (x: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  iterator I... reads {}
}
```

There are restrictions on what may change when refining an iterator. In particular, no new reads clauses may be added
even if they are contained within the base declarations's reads clauses.

## Error: a refining iterator is not allowed to extend the modifies clause** {#ref_no_new_iterator_modifies}

```dafny
module P {
  iterator I() yields (x: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  iterator I... modifies {}
}
```

There are restrictions on what may change when refining an iterator. In particular, no new modifies clauses may be added
even if they list objects that are contained within the base declarations's modifies clauses.

## **Error: a refining iterator is not allowed to extend the decreases clause** {#ref_no_new_iterator_decreases}

```dafny
module P {
  iterator I() yields (x: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  iterator I... decreases 1 {}
}
```

There are restrictions on what may change when refining an iterator. In particular, no new decreases clause may be added

> even if if is the same as or implied by the base declaration's decreases clause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
even if it is the same as or implied by the base declaration's decreases clause.
```

Reviewer: Nit: above you use plural "modifies clause_s_", here you use singular "decreases clause".

## **Error: a const declaration (_name_) in a refining class (_class_) must replace a const in the refinement base** {#ref_const_must_refine_const}

```dafny
module P {
  class A { var c: int }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { const c: int }
}
```

Following the general rule that declarations in the base module are replaced by more specific declarations of the same kind in the refining module,

> a `const` declaration in the refining module must replace a `const` declaration in the base (with the same type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `const` declaration in the refining module must replace a `const` declaration in the base module (with the same type).
```

## **Error: the type of a const declaration (_name_) in a refining class (_class_) must be syntactically the same as for the const being refined** {#ref_no_changed_const_type}

```dafny
module P {
  type T = bool
  class A { const c: bool }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { const c: T }
}
```

The declarations in a refining module must have the same type as in the base module. In fact, to enable easier checking that the type
has not changed, the type must be expressed in the same syntactic form in the two declarations. It is not permitted to use a type in one place and 

> an equivalent type synonym in the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an equivalent type synonym in another.
```

## **Error: a const re-declaration (_name_) can give an initializing expression only if the const in the refinement base does not** {#ref_no_refining_const_initializer}

```dafny
module P {
  const c := 7
}
module Q refines P {
  const c := 8
}
```

A refined declaration of a `const` may add an initializer, but it cannot replace an initializer declared in the base,

> even if it is syntactically the same value.

Reviewer: Use an example that "is syntactically the same value"?

Author: Added.

## **Error: a const in a refining module cannot be changed from static to non-static or vice versa: _name_** {#ref_mismatched_module_static}

```dafny
module P {
 class A {const c: int }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { static const c := 7 }
}
```

> A `const` declaration that is in a class that is being refined cannot change its static-ness.

Reviewer: "static-ness" sounds odd, but seems to be correct. Alternative: _statics_?

Author: Informal for static or non-static

> ## **Error: a const re-declaration (_name_) is not allowed to un-ghostify the const** {#ref_mismatched_const_ghost}

Reviewer: I'd replace "un-ghostify" with e.g. "remove the const attribute".

Author: Actually - I went ahead and changed it here

```dafny
module P {
  ghost const c := 7
}
module Q refines P {
  const c: int
}
```

A `const` refining declaration cannot change the declaration from `ghost` to non-ghost.

> ## **Error: a const re-declaration (_name_) must be to ghostify the const_info_** {#ref_refinement_must_add_const_ghost}

Reviewer: By your comment below, it doesn't necessarily have to add a ghost attribute; it could also add an initializer.

Author: RIght - I'm not changing the error messages here - but will do so in a subsequent PR

## **Error: a field declaration (_name_) in a refining class (_class_) must replace a field in the refinement base** {#ref_field_must_refine_field}

```dafny
module P {
  type T = int
  class A { const c: int }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { var c: T }
}
```

Following the general rule that declarations in the base module are replaced by more specific declarations of the same kind in the refining module,
a `var` declaration in a refining class must replace a `var` declaration in the class in the base (with the same type).

## **Error: a field declaration (_name_) in a refining class (_class_) must repeat the syntactically same type as the field has in the refinement base** {#ref_mismatched_field_name}

```dafny
module P {
  type T = int
  class A { var c: int }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { var c: T }
}
```

The field declarations in a refining class must have the same type as in the class in the base module. In fact, to enable easier checking that the type
has not changed, the type must be expressed in the same syntactic form in the two declarations. It is not permitted to use a type in one place and 

> an equivalent type synonym in the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an equivalent type synonym in another.
```

Author: Reworded

## **Error: a field re-declaration (_name_) must be to ghostify the field** {#ref_refinement_field_must_add_ghost}

```dafny
module P {
  class A { var c: int }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { var c: int }
}
```

When a class is being refined, any field declaration in the base is copied into the refinement.
If there is a redeclaration of the field, it must be to add a `ghost` modifier.

## **Error: a _kind_ declaration (_name_) can only refine a _kind_** {#ref_mismatched_refinement_kind}

```dafny
module P {
  function f(i: int): bool
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate f(i: int) { true }
}
```

The refining declaration must be the same kind of thing as the base declaration.
For example both must be predicates or both must be functions (even if the function is one that returns a `bool`).

## Error: a refining _kind_ is not allowed to add preconditions** {#ref_refinement_no_new_preconditions}

```dafny
module P {
  predicate m(i: nat)
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m(i: nat) requires true { true }
}
```

A function in a refining module must be able to be used in the same way as the abstract function in the base module.

> If there are additional preconditions, then the uses of the refined module may be more restricted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are additional preconditions, then the usage within the refined module may be more restricted.
```

Author: Reworded

Thus no new preconditions may be added. This is a syntactic check, so no preconditions can be added even if they
are implied by the existing preconditions.

## **Error: a refining _kind_ is not allowed to extend the reads clause** {#ref_refinement_no_new_reads}

```dafny
module P {
  predicate m() reads {}
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m() reads this {true }
}
```

A function in a refining module must be able to be used in the same way as the abstract function in the base module.

> Extending the reads clause with additional objects cxhanges this equivalence and is not allowed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extending the reads clause with additional objects changes this equivalence and is not allowed.
```

> This change is syntactic: the refining function is not allowed to write any reads clauses; it just inherits those from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change is syntactic: the refining function is not allowed to write any reads clauses, it just inherits those from
```

Author: Actually the ; is correct and the comma not. But I changed it to avoid a series of ;-separated clauses.

> the base declaration; this is the case even if the new reads clause is a repeat or subset of the base declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the base declaration. This is the case even if the new reads clause is a repetition or subset of the base declaration.
```

Author: Part of the above change

## **Error: decreases clause on refining _kind_ not supported** {#ref_no_new_decreases}

```dafny
module P {
  predicate m(i: nat) reads {}
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m(i: nat) decreases i {true }
}
```

For simplicity, a refining function is not allowed to add decreases clauses to its declaration.

## **Error: a function in a refining module cannot be changed from static to non-static or vice versa: _name_** {#ref_mismatched_function_static}

```dafny
module P {
  class A { predicate m(i: nat) }
}
module Q refines P {
  class A ... { static predicate m(i: nat) {true } }
}
```

> The static-ness of a function declaration in a refining class must be the same as in the base class.

Reviewer: See above

Author: Same comment

## **Error: a compiled function cannot be changed into a ghost function in a refining module: _name_** {#ref_mismatched_function_compile}

```dafny
module P {
  predicate m(i: nat)
}
module Q refines P {
  ghost predicate m(i: nat)
}
```

> If a function is declared as non-ghost in the base module, it cannot then be declared `ghost` in the refining module.

Author: Reworded

## **Error: a ghost function can be changed into a compiled function in a refining module only if the function has not yet been given a body: _name_** {#ref_no_refinement_function_with_body}

```dafny
module P {
  ghost predicate m(i: nat) { true }
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m(i: nat) { true }
}
```

If a function is declared ghost in a base module, it can then be given a body and declared non-ghost in the refined version of the module.

> But in the case where the the base declaration already has a body and is `ghost`, the refined declaraqtion cannot then change the function to non-ghost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But in the case where the the base declaration already has a body and is `ghost`, the refined declaration cannot then change the function to non-ghost.
```

## **Error: the name of function return value '_function_'(_result_) differs from the name of corresponding function return value in the module it refines (_otherresult_)** {#ref_mismatched_function_return_name}

```dafny
module P {
  function f(a: int): (r: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  function f(a: int): (s: int) { 0 }
}
```

When refining a function, the input and output signature must stay precisely the same -- formals, types, and names.

> In this case the name of the returned value is different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the name of the returned value is different.
```

## **Error: the result type of function '_function_' (_type_) differs from the result type of the corresponding function in the module it refines (_othertype_)** {#ref_mismatched_function_return_type}

```dafny
module P {
  function f(a: int): int { 0 }
}
module Q refines P {
  function f(a: int): bool
}
```

When refining a function, the input and output signature must stay precisely the same -- formals, types, and names.

> In this case the return type is different. The types must be syntactically identical; it is not allowed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the return type is different. The types must be syntactically identical; it is not allowed
```

Author: Reworded

to use a type and an equivalent type sysnonym, for example.

## **Error: a refining _kind_ is not allowed to extend/change the body** {#ref_mismatched_refinement_body}

```dafny
module P {
  function f(a: int): int { 0 }
}
module Q refines P {
  function f(a: int): int { 0 }
}
```

When refining any kind of function, the refining declaration can not include a body if the b ase declaration has a body, even if the text of the bodies are identical.

## Error: a method declaration (_name_) can only refine a method** {#ref_method_refines_method}

```dafny
module P {
  function m(a: int): int
}
module Q refines P {
  method m(a: int)  {}
}
```

The refining declaration must be the same kind of thing as the base declaration.
For example both must be methods.

## **Error: a refining method is not allowed to add preconditions** {#ref_no_new_method_precondition}

```dafny
module P {
  method m() {}
}
module Q refines P {
  method m() requires true {}
}
```

A method in a refining module must be able to be used in the same way as the abstract method in the base module.

> If there are additional preconditions, then the uses of the refined module may be more restricted.

Author: Reworded

Thus no new preconditions may be added. This is a syntactic check, so no preconditions can be added even if they
are implied by the existing preconditions.

## **Error: a refining method is not allowed to extend the modifies clause** {#ref_no_new_method_modifies}

```dafny
module P {
  method m(i: nat)
}
module Q refines P {
  method m(i: nat) modifies {} { }
}
```

A method in a refining module must be able to be used in the same way as the abstract method in the base module.

> If there are additional objects in the modifies clause, then the uses of the refined module may have more effect than known by the basea method signature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there are additional objects in the modifies clause, then the usage of the refined module may have more effect than known by the base method signature.
```

## **Error: type parameter '_name_' is not allowed to change variance (here, from '_oldvariance_' to '_variance_')** {#ref_mismatched_type_parameter_variance}

```dafny
module P {
  type T<+U> 
}
module Q refines P {
  type T<U> = int
}
```

There are restrictions on what can be changed in a refinement. 
In particular, the variance of type parameters must remain the same.

## **Error: _kind_ '_name_' is declared with a different number of _what_ (_num_ instead of _oldnum_) than the corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines** {#ref_mismatched_kind_count}

```dafny
module P {
  method m(i: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  method m(i: int, j: int) {}
}
```

There are restrictions on what can be changed in a refinement. 
In particular, the number, type and names of formal parameters must remain the same.

## **Error: there is a difference in name of _kind_ _num_ ('_name_' versus '_oldname_') of _kind_ _name_ compared to corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines** {#ref_mismatched_kind_name}

```dafny
module P {
  method m(i: int)
}
module Q refines P {
  method m(j: int) {}
}
```

There are restrictions on what can be changed in a refinement. 

> In particular, for convenience and readability. the names of formal parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, for convenience and readability, the names of formal parameters
```

In particular, ghost-ness of formal parameters
may not change for any declaration.

## **Error: _kind_ '_name_' of _kind_ _container_ cannot be changed, compared to the corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines, from new to non-new** {#ref_mismatched_kind_non_new}

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: _kind_ '_name_' of _kind_ _container_ cannot be changed, compared to the corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines, from non-new to new** {#ref_mismatched_kind_new}

<!-- TODO -->

## **Error: _kind_ '_name_' of _kind_ _container_ cannot be changed, compared to the corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines, from non-older to older** {#ref_mismatched_kind_older}

```dafny
module P {
  class A {}
  predicate m(a: A)
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m(older a: A) { true }
}
```

When refining a predicate, a formal parameter may not change from onder to non-older or vice versa.

## **Error: _kind_ '_name_' of _kind_ _container_ cannot be changed, compared to the corresponding _kind_ in the module it refines, from older to non-older** {#ref_mismatched_kind_non_older}

```dafny
module P {
  class A {}
  predicate m(older a: A)
}
module Q refines P {
  predicate m(a: A) { true }
}
```

> When refining a predicate, a formal parameter may not change from onder to non-older or vice versa.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When refining a predicate, a formal parameter may not change from older to non-older or vice versa.
```
